you want to go after the channels that
are the most effective and easiest to
implement for example one of my favorite
approaches is SEO but SEO is very hard
to do so you may want to start with
things like email before SEO
all right so today we're going to be
breaking down how to win the Omni
Channel Race and we're going to break
down the future of digital marketing so
let's get started my name is Neil Patel
I'm the co-founder of an ad agency
called NP digital we have offices all
around the world including Brazil like
in Sao Paulo and Bello we work with
companies of all sizes have a lot of
awards the reason for me to tell you
this isn't to brag it's more so to tell
you that we wouldn't be able to work
with these clients we wouldn't have gone
these Awards if the tactics and
strategies didn't work so when I break
them down today just keep in mind these
strategies and tactics are proven and
they work
we use them on our own business and we
were able to be
we're able to be the 21st fastest
growing company in the United States
using omnichannel marketing
so when you think about omni-channel
marketing a lot of people just think
about social media we use social media
we have followers everywhere but more
than just social media we have a podcast
with over a million listeners a month we
have a website with millions of
listeners or readers a month
we have an email list with around 1.3
million people this is omnichannel
marketing we're not relying on one
channel
so let's talk about the rise of omni
Channel marketing first off it's like a
Orchestra
for omnichannel marketing to work think
of it as
I think for omnichannel to work think of
it as a symphony
much better now
in which everyone has to be playing
together and it has to work extremely
well
from the conductor to violinist to the
person playing the flute it all works as
one
most companies don't run Omni Channel
marketing like a Orchestra Symphony they
run each Channel independently
and that's when you have upset customers
Instagram is not its own channel
Facebook it's not his own channel Google
is not his own channel they need to all
be working together when you have them
all work together and you create a
congruent experience you're going to
have happy customers
here's an interesting stat from Google
90 of consumers use multiple of the
prices to complete a single task such as
researching a product or making a
purchase
that means the majority of people out
there
are
the majority of people out there are
using multiple devices and multiple
channels to make a purchase
you got to learn from Nike Nike has
amazing experience whether using an app
or their website or you're going in
person they're leveraging Omni Channel
and they're using all these channels to
work with each other to create amazing
experience
when you do this you'll find that you're
going to get fewer refunds
the more your channels work together
the happier people are going to be and
your refunds will go down and this is
from Gartner
the big thing that we're seeing
companies make a mistake on is they're
overestimating the impact of omni
Channel and underestimating the
complexity
yes it can provide a big impact but it
takes a lot of work and these channels
have to work together
the first thing you need to understand
is your audience and their needs look
followers
are not your audience the more followers
you have
doesn't mean you're going to succeed you
got to get the right type of followers
for example if on my Instagram I talk
about lessons my mom taught me
that I wish I knew right now
no one would hire me
we work with big Brands and Enterprises
here in Brazil and around the world
talking about what my mom taught me when
I was five years old may get a lot of
views and followers but it's not going
to generate a lot of Revenue
so to win the right type of audience you
got to pay attention and keep in mind
all attention is earned there's only 24
hours in a day
1440 minutes and 86 000 seconds you
gotta earn that attention and you're
competing not just with your competition
but you're competing with other people
out there you're competing with people
sleeping people eating people taking
time to hang out with their family these
are all areas that you're competing with
so you need to make sure that your
marketing is creating time
and here's how we create time at our Ad
Agency NP digital so we help companies
get more traffic through marketing and
one thing that we do is we bought a tool
for a hundred and twenty thousand
dollars years and years ago we put in
around three to five million dollars
into the tool but the tool teaches
people how to get more traffic to their
website in less than 60 seconds you see
how that's creating time
I'm providing a tool that gives them the
solution quicker
and when we look at that it's helped us
continually get more and more traffic we
kept adding more features to the tool
like showing people their competition
and how to get more traffic and what's
wrong with their website and over five
years we generated 36 million users then
we did the same thing again and keep in
mind when I go back here this tool
accounts for 40 of our Revenue comes
from the tool our customers 40 of our
customers came from the tool because we
helped them create time
we did the same thing again with another
tool called answer the public we bought
it for 8.6 million dollars last February
and what we ended up doing is the same
approach we help companies get more
traffic in shorter time
generating 18 million users over five
years
so with omnichannel marketing it's not
just about creating time you also need
to create amazing brand experience
across all your channels
one of the ways to do that is through
loyalty loyalty is a function of memory
and this is a quote from Colin Shaw
and the way you create amazing loyalty
is through the peak and Rule when
someone first uses your product and when
they stop using your product that is how
they remember you you want to create
amazing Peaks if they have bad
experiences you're going to have a
terrible Peak
so for example when you want to learn
how to ride a bike you may fall that
creates bad memories but once someone
learns how to ride and their hair goes
flowing in the air and they're going
fast that creates amazing memory and
then as they grow up and they get to go
to all these different places because
they can ride their bike and they don't
need their parents it creates another
amazing memory
so when you're following this Rule
people have this misconception
especially here in Brazil we see a lot
of companies say oh to create amazing
brand and experience and follow the
Pekin rule we need to offer discounts if
you have amazing quality product you do
not need to offer discounts look at
Apple Apple sells a lot of people I know
in Brazil have iPhones even people here
in the audience why they don't offer
discounts is because their products are
amazing
when you think about omnichannel
marketing people have changed the way
they shop they're using multiple devices
like what I what Google stated earlier
but have you changed the way that you
sell
people need longer research Windows
according to HubSpot people spend on
average 13 days
researching before they buy
the way to make this happen is by being
omnichannel you got to leverage email
website social media SEO all the
channels push notifications so then that
way you can educate and help people
throughout those 13 days before they end
up purchasing
and here's a list of the channels that
are the most effective and how hard they
are to implement you want to go after
the channels that are the most effective
and easiest to implement for example one
of my favorite approaches is SEO but SEO
is very hard to do so you may want to
start with things like email before SEO
and when you look at your traffic the
way you know you're going to do well in
Omni channel is a split of traffic if
you have too much traffic coming from
organic that's bad if you have too much
coming from paid that's bad it needs to
be a good balance for Branded versus
non-branded it needs to be a good mix if
50 plus percent of your traffic is
coming from branded that's not good
you're not leveraging omnichannel no
more than 30 percent of your traffic
should be coming from branded terms
we're also seeing a decrease or a
delayed in spending according to PWC
they found that 58 of consumers are
spending Less on non-essential items
during this bad economy and a survey
from Nielsen found that 51 of consumers
are eating more at home to save money
so in this bad economy people are
delaying purchases but that doesn't mean
that you can't generate sales you just
have to be more creative with your
marketing for example a lot of
supermarkets and retail stores are
starting to put coupons on their
receipts it's a great way to generate
sales and get people to come back and
buy from you again
we're also seeing a shift on how people
are buying a lot of people have found a
product in a physical store and then
bought online or found a product on a
website but then went in person to buy
in essence there's a huge shift to Omni
shopping not just Omni Channel but Omni
shopping people may buy from social
media they may buy from your website
they may buy from your retail store they
may buy from Amazon the list is never
ending but one way to generate a lot of
sales right now that a lot of people
aren't using but this is super effective
around the world and especially here in
Brazil is going live going live to motor
product or service works really well
especially if you offer discounts we're
seeing shoppable live streams can
increase conversion rates by up to 20
percent according to Big Commerce
right now in this landscape there's a
pivot people are going from spontaneous
purchases to intentional shopping to
choosing a channel to wanting companies
to be the channel to being loyal to
Brands to more so being loyal to the
experience if you don't create amazing
experience you're going to lose
so let's talk about some lessons that
you can learn from some of the top Omni
Channel companies out there Disney
when you look at Disney they create a
seamless experience from the app that
you have when you go to Disneyland or
Disney World to the website to their
social platforms
they're personalizing everything to you
even the experience they're creating
when they're creating those movies
whether it's the Marvel movie to the
rides that they're creating at their
theme parks that are Marvel related
Bank of America is a bank within the
United States
they're using Omni channel to figure out
where people are getting stuck and what
new product offerings and services to
offer them to create a better experience
this is amazing experience that they've
done over time which has helped them
continually grow as a company I think
they're worth now to 300 billion dollars
Timberland is a retail company this
one's really interesting so when you go
to a store right now sometimes you have
to ask someone for help Timberland is
using near field technology to figure
out how they can help you in the store
so you no longer have to ask people
questions
and Sephora Sephora is a Makeup Company
it's they have retail stores throughout
the United States and what they're doing
is using omnichannel to tie in online
visits to in-store purchases to create
that congruent experience
so let's talk about some quick
omni-channel tricks
the first is YouTube YouTube
is the second most popular search engine
behind Google funny enough YouTube is
also owned by Google so they own the
most popular search engine the second
most popular search engine the way you
do well on YouTube is in the first 24
hours of a video going live
you email it out you promote it you tell
all your friends about it a video that
does well in the first 24 hours on
YouTube
will rank high get more traffic and get
more suggestion it's the opposite of
most social platforms and search
algorithms YouTube is all about the
first 24 hours and if you do well in the
first 24 hours you'll do well even three
four six months later down the road
then we have LinkedIn according to
omnicore agency less than one percent of
LinkedIn users create and share content
but creating content on LinkedIn isn't
enough what you need to do if you want
to do well with LinkedIn is you gotta
create engaging comments so if your
content isn't encouraging others to
create comments you're not going to do
well these comments can't be yes or no
they can't be I agree or I disagree
their comments have to add to the
conversation if the comments create more
comments and other people engaging
that's how you divide go viral on
LinkedIn the key is to get people to
leave comments within the first four
hours of your LinkedIn post going live
now with Google Google cares about
Brands they know that brands are less
likely to create fake news and fake
information
so the way you create a brand is you can
create tools okay so just like on our
website we have that marketing tool
called ubersuggest another one called
answer the public you can create these
tools on sites like code Canyon and buy
them for
10 20 30 or you can use chat GPT to
create tools chat gbt created the video
game pong in less than 60 seconds and
I'll show you that in a bit
when you create free tools and you give
them away it'll cause more people
to continually come back to your website
and you'll build a more loyal brand
you also want to build a community
people need a sense of belonging
we love Community just look it in Brazil
one of your biggest communities is a
soccer Community or football Community
look at how many people in Brazil love
Neymar I was here for the World Cup
when the World Cup happens in Brazil
everything shuts down no one is in work
everyone's at a bar drinking some
alcohol and watching Nemar try to score
a goal
that's a sense of community you want to
do this through email lists and what we
do is you give away free tools and then
when people use your tools
you can then ask them for their email
address in exchange to keep using your
tool for free
and when I mention sites like code
Canyon or chat GPT there's tools on
these sites for every industry whether
you're in real estate or Automotive or
Fitness or B2B or b2c it doesn't matter
they have tools for you
look Omni channel is no longer a
buzzword it's a necessity
now it's your turn to leverage
omnichannel marketing
my last
word of advice to you guys is if you
want to use omnichannel marking and do
it successfully
you cannot just hire one person to say
hey you're in charge of Instagram and
this other person is in charge of
Facebook and this other person is in
charge of SEO and this other person is
in charge of email
they need to work together as a team
the learnings you get from Instagram you
need to adapt them to Facebook and SEO
and your podcasts the learnings you get
from your paid ads you need to adopt it
to tick tock and Instagram and social
other social platforms and even SEO if
all your channels are working together
you're doing promotions with all your
channels together
you're going to create a much better
experience you'll get more sales and
you'll get less refunds
there was a company that we work with
called Expedia and Expedia has a company
in Brazil and Latin America called
Trivago have you heard of Trivago and
they did this study and they found that
when they lit omnichannel marketing even
though people already knew the brand and
they leveraged radio and TV and social
media and SEO they got more than 10
percent more conversions That's The
Power of omni Channel marketing